~~REVEAL night~~

===== Packing Up and Shipping Out for Hostile Environments =====

{{:presentations:nuke.jpg}}

=====Michael Campfield=====
{{  :presentations:bofh.jpg?0x300}}
\\

- HPC Operations: NCCS
- RHCSA / RHCE
- Configuration Management Tyrant
- Stage Hand in Black

=====Questions=====
{{ :presentations:student.jpg }}

Have a question? \\

Raise a hand. A **Jazz** Hand.

=====How we got here=====

- "I am sysadmin and so can you."
- Lots of good presentations mentioning these temporary build environments.
- Lots of information online to make them useful for me.

=====Practice, not Configs=====

- I won't make you read config files.
- My process in discovering and exploiting these tools.
- What I gained from using these tools.
- What you might use this for later.

=====Warnings and Cautions=====

- Packer and Vagrant **as described here and in most how-to guides** are not meant for production.
- Vagrant uses well known users, passwords, and SSH keys.
- You can work around this, but be forewarned.

=====Terms Used Here=====

- Machine Image/Image: A standard type of virtual machine you might create in VirtualBox, VMware, AWS, libvirt, **and** also Docker containers.
- Vagrant Box: A tweaked VM Image used by Vagrant software to simplify creating/updating/modifying VMs in **many** VM environments.

===== What are Packer and Vagrant =====

- They are useful tools that can be used for development, testing, and deployment in and out of a DevOps/SA environment.
- Goals: Consistent, Repeatable, Low maintenance, and Portable ways to create different machine images from single configurations and sources and quickly bring up tuned environments (like clusters or software build hosts) on your local desktop or VM environment.
- They alleviate tedious tasks and give you development "bullet-time."

=====The Problem (Phase 0)=====

- NCCS 2015: Needed quick way to install, test, and break each component in the upgrade process from Request Tracerk 3 -> 4, this required building and throwing away hundreds of VMs to create the RPM build, testing runs, and DB changes correct.
- Snapshotting worked, but proved inefficient and error prone.
- Later in 2015, a co-worker showed a need to automatically test-deploy NFSroot images by PXE booting in a VM environment but didn't want to deal with real metal.

=====The Solution (Phase 0)=====
=====Vagrant=====

- Open source tool from [[https://www.hashicorp.com/|HashiCorp]]
- "Vagrant is a tool for building complete development environments. With an easy-to-use workflow and focus on automation, Vagrant lowers development environment setup time, increases development/production parity, and makes the 'works on my machine' excuse a relic of the past." [[https://www.vagrantup.com/about.html|Citation, 2016]].
- Download pre-generated 'Boxes' (or make your own) which are standard installs with common (insecure) ssh keys, users/passwords. Lots of different pre-generated Boxes to choose from covering most of the common Open Source distributions with various tools baked in by others.

=====Vagrant (cont.)=====

- Create your own Boxes is relatively easy, so you can build some that target local repos, or pre-package boxes with configuration management ready for machine instantiation.
- At NCCS we use RHEL, so we need to build our own Boxes and are concerned about repo versioning.
- Multiple "Providers/Provisioners" are available allowing you to use VirtualBox, OpenStack, VMware, Docker, etc
- Lots of community plugins that simplify life (auto guest additions, extra providers, seamless scp, ...).
- One Config to Rule them ALL: Vagrantfile (And in the Domain Bind them) .
- vagrant ssh
- It even integrates creating MS Windows Boxes, using PowerShell, and Azure as a provider.

=====Vagrant (cont.)=====

- Vagrantfile lets you configure things like:
  - Uploads to the newly created VM (scripts, ISOs).
  - Install and run Puppet/Ansible/Chef/Salt on the system.
  - Shell provisioning that happens when the VM is instantiated (any executable).
  - Set IP and MAC addresses dynamically
  - Global or per machine changes to VM features including CPUs, Memory, Extra disks, misc hardware.
  - synced folders (very powerful for using things on your host system).
  - Linked clones (significant speedups).

=====Vagrant (cont.)=====

- Build it.
- Use it.
- Destroy it.
- Friend Computer reloads its clone in seconds.
- Cattle not Pets.

=====Your First Vagrant Box in under 10 Minutes=====

- Install Vagrant binaries: https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html
- vagrant init centos/7;
- vagrant up --provider virtualbox
- vagrant ssh
- vagrant destroy --force

=====The Problem (Phase 1, months after Phase 0)=====

- Building Vagrant Boxes isn't hard, but keeping VM images updated and creating different images for each of my team's repos was time consuming, prone to errors and cruft developed making on-disk images bulky and slower to load.
- Needed more customization of Boxes before it got to the Vagrant phase to reduce number of unique Vagrant configuration files and their complexity.
- All this required more hand-crafted VM images and more time.

=====The Solution (Phase 1)=====

=====Packer=====

- Another open source tool from [[https://www.hashicorp.com/|HashiCorp]].
- "Packer is a tool for creating machine and container images for multiple platforms from a single source configuration." [[https://www.packer.io/|Citation, 2016]]
- Packer [ISO|VM Image]->[VM Image|Vagrant Box] using JSON input (for good or ill).

=====Packer (cont.)=====

- Similar configuration abilities as Vagrant, but during initial image build phase.
  - More targets from same configuration (VMWare, AWS, VirtualBox, etc)
  - Auto add tools like VirtualBox Guest Additions.
  - Multiple different build profiles per file (eg: 'rhel_6.7_development', 'rhel_7.2_webservers').
  - Handles events like script initiated reboots and continues with provisioning (good for kernel updates).
  - Upload filesystem objects from hosts, running shell commands on guest/host. This is not a replacement for Puppet, Chef, etc.
  - Build and test locally and then ship the same-content final image to AWS or deploy in 2 different clouds.

=====Packer (cont.)=====

- Solution Step 1: Packer builds base VirtualBox VM OVF images (saves time later).
  - Install CentOS [6.7|7.2], RHEL [6.7|7.2], Ubuntu 14.04[x32|x64] ISOs to VirtualBox VMs using KS/Preseed.
  - Step 1 Packer disables SELinux and removes hardware identities for network cards.
  - Output 6 (in this case) VirtualBox OVFs.

=====Packer (cont.)=====

- Solution Step 2: Packer builds Vagrant Boxes.
  - Load base OVF files from Step 1 to generate 12 Vagrant Boxes (CentOS [6.7|7.2], RHEL [6.7|7.2]+[internal1|internal2|development], Ubuntu 14.04[x32|x64]+[development|testing].
  - Copy up common and build specific repos and GPG keys.
  - Copy up common and build specific packages.
  - Copy up common and build specific scripts.
  - Run build scripts that do full system upgrade + reboot, installs packages (files+from repos), adds guest additions, cleanup, then zeros the disk for better compression.
  - Shut down the machine and outputs to a Vagrant Box.
- Total time taken for ISOs to 12 Vagrant Boxes - 40 minutes.
- Updates come out - run one script to regenerate in 15 minutes.

=====The Problem (Phase 2)=====

- Co-worker wants his team to be able to test NFSroot PXE boot environments automatically, hopefully with Vagrant.
- I want to develop Puppet faster without delay and clogging up source control until it is beyond beta.
- I'm writing a paper and want to test my own software and need an entire dev+build environment.

=====The Solution (Phase 2)=====
=====Vagrant Multi-Machine Puppet Env.=====

- Use Vagrant to bring up a puppet server and 1+ clients.
- Initial 'vagrant up' have Vagrant's configuration and provisioners:
  - Make the puppet installs look like NCCS'.
  - Point Puppet DNS at private subnet with dnsmasq.
  - Abuse chattr +i to prevent overwriting important DNS and puppet-related files.
  - sync folders to mount my Puppet dev env. on the puppetserver.
  - Run puppet tests against the server and clients.
- When I change my development branch burn down client or client+server, back in 5 minutes.

=====Vagrant Multi-Machine NFSroot development environment=====

- Use Vagrant to bring up a build, management, and PXE image
- Initial 'vagrant up' have Vagrant's configuration and provisioners:
  - Vagrant installs puppet agent, runs it against micro-source tree in sync folders.
  - Triggers NFSroot build based on Vagrant guest OS.
  - Management server boots and loads build server output into TFTP + NFS server.
  - PXE client boots off internal network and PXEs from the management server.
  - My lunch finishes reheating in the microwave while this happens.

=====Notes=====

- Don't build packer machine images in parallel - it is sometimes buggy and can hang.
- Because we sanitize network configurations, occasionally VMs will come up with eth0/eth1 reversed. This is my fault for not using biosdevnames.
- Don't be afraid to blow it all away, walk to the break room for water, then come back to a fresh setup.

=====Notes (cont.)=====

- The abuse of chattr in Puppet Multi-Machine generates a lot of failure errors, but that can't be helped.
- Packer: Think about your layout for designing your build configuration.
  - Can you remove repeated steps or abstract them out?
  - What happens if you want to target multiple platforms, what breaks or gets messy?
  - Are you robust enough to cleanly add different OS types (Debian, CentOS, SuSE)?

===== Future =====

- Easier software build environments.
- Move my images from Vagrant public to locked down.
- More build settings for each group's repos and local build scripts.
- Improve NFSroot image creation.
- Improve my Docker base image creation script.
- Quickly test exploits against production-like images (DNS?).

===== Links / Resources =====

- [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BRmFYJx28V0|I am sysadmin and so can you. (Youtube)]]
- [[https://www.packer.io/]]
- [[https://www.vagrantup.com/]]
- [[https://www.virtualbox.org/]]

=====Questions?=====

{{:presentations:spock_question.jpg?0x600}}

=====Future of LOPSA ETENN=====

We need presenters to survive and thrive!

^^^
|systemd/systemd-nspawn|Scaling Out Services|
|AWS|User Management/LDAP|
|SaltStack|BSD|
|CFEngine|log analysis tools|
|Git|Staff Management|
|Backups|scale out filesystems|
|High availability|Cobbler/Foreman|
|SELinux|LibVirt|
|MariaDB & PostgreSQL|PKI/GPG|
|Microsoft Deployment/Management|OpenStack|
